dotnet new webapi -o ShoppingMall.API

add git and push to my repository.

Starting with the domain. We will have the model classes here. 
This is a representation of the products and categories in form of classes as well as the repositories and services interfaces.

We create a domain folder to house the above.
create a models folder and create the model classes in it. Category and Product respectively. 
Note the product and category are POCO classes (Plain Old CLR Object). Meaning the the classes
will have properties to describe its basic information.
We also create an enum EUnitOfMeasurement to hold the measurement of units.

Next we create category controller CategoriesController.
add the attribute for routing [Route("/api/[controller]")]

To get all categories we can reach the api end point /api/categories via the httpget verb.
We will create a service for this purpose.

A service is basically a class or interface that defines methods to handle some business logic task
that require some interaction between other services or models. e.g. authentication, payment, complex data flow
caching e.t.c.

Using service we can isolate the request and response handling the the real logic needed to complete a task.

To define a behaviour in most object oriented programming, we use the interface. An interface tells how something should work
but does not implement the real logic for the behaviour. The logic is implmented in classes that implement the interface.

So we will create a folder called services in the domain folder and create an interface called ICategoryService.
By convention interfaces name starts with a capital letter I.

The ListAsync() method must return asynchronously an enumeration of categories.

The Task class, encapsulate the return, indicates asynchrony. 

The whole idea for using an interface is that it allow us to abstract the desired behaviour from the real implementation 
This also allows us to make use of the concept called dependency injection. 

Basically, when you use dependency injection, you define some behaviors using an interface. 
Then, you create a class that implements the interface. Finally, you bind the references from the 
interface to the class you created.

“ - It sounds really confusing. Can’t we simply create a class that does these things for us?”
Let’s continue implementing our API and you will understand why to use this approach.


I have defined a constructor function for our controller (a constructor is called when a new instance of a class is created), 
and it receives an instance of ICategoryService. It means the instance can be anything that implements the service interface. 
I store this instance in a private, read-only field _categoryService. We’ll use this field to access the methods of our category 
service implementation.

By the way, the underscore prefix is another common convention to denote a field. This convention, 
in special, is not recommended by the official naming convention guideline of .NET, but it is a very common 
practice as a way to avoid having to use the “this” keyword to distinguish class fields from local variables. 
I personally think it’s much cleaner to read, and a lot of frameworks and libraries use this convention.

Below the constructor, I defined the method that is going to handle requests for /api/categories. 
The HttpGet attribute tells the ASP.NET Core pipeline to use it to handle GET requests (this attribute can be omitted, but 
it’s better to write it for easier legibility).

The method uses our category service instance to list all categories and then returns the categories to the client. 
The framework pipeline handles the serialization of data to a JSON object. The IEnumerable<Category>type tells the 
framework that we want to return an enumeration of categories, and the Task type, preceded by the async keyword, tells
 the pipeline that this method should be executed asynchronously. Finally, when we define an async method, we have to use 
 the await keyword for tasks that can take a while.

 A service class is not a class that should handle data access. There is a pattern called Repository Pattern
 that is used to manage data from databases.

 When using the Repository Pattern, we define repository classes, that basically encapsulate all logic to handle data access. 
 CRUD Operations

 Inside the Domain folder, create a new directory called Repositories. Then, add a new interface called ICategoryRespository
 to return the data.

We’ll use the Entity Framework Core (I’ll call it EF Core for simplicity) as our database ORM. This framework comes with 
ASP.NET Core as its default ORM and exposes a friendly API that allows us to map classes of our applications to database tables.

 The constructor we added to this class is responsible for passing the database configuration to the base class through dependency injection.

Now, we have to create two DbSet properties. These properties are sets (collections of unique objects) that map models to database tables.
We also override the OnModelCreating method as well as addingsample database seeding code.

Having implemented the database context class, we can implement the categories repository. 
Add a new folder called Repositories inside the Persistence folder, and then add a new class called BaseRepository.
 
The BaseRepository receives an instance of our AppDbContext through dependency injection and exposes a protected property 
(a property that can only be accessible by the children classes) called _context, that gives access to all methods we need
 to handle database operations.

Add a new class on the same folder called CategoryRepository. Now we’ll really implement the repository logic:

Configuring Dependency Injection


The scoped lifetime tells the ASP.NET Core pipeline that every time it needs to resolve a class that receives an instance of 
AppDbContext as a constructor argument, it should use the same instance of the class. If there is no instance in memory, the 
pipeline will create a new instance, and reuse it throughout all classes that need it, during a given request. This way, you don’t 
need to manually create the class instance when you need to use it.


Code reusability;
Better productivity, since when we have to change implementation, we don’t need to bother to change a hundred places where you use that feature;

You can easily test the application since we can isolate what we have to test using mocks (fake implementation of classes) where we have to pass 
interfaces as constructor arguments;

When a class needs to receive more dependencies via a constructor, you don’t have to manually change all places where the instances are being 
created (that’s awesome!).


We need to make changes to our Program class to enable it seed the database. 



dotnet run

https://localhost:5001/api/categories

we will see th categories.

To shape our data such that we dont return an empty product we make use of the resource class. Meaning
all responses from API endpoints must return a resource.

It is a bad practice to return the real model representation as the response since it can contain information that the 
client application does not need or that it doesn’t have permission to have (for example, a user model could return information of
 the user password, which would be a big security issue).

We need a resource to represent only our categories, without the products.

Now that you know what a resource is, let’s implement it. First of all, stop the running application pressing Ctrl + C at the 
command line. In the root folder of the application, create a new folder called Resources. There, add a new class called 
CategoryResource. 

We have to map our collection of category models, that is provided by our category service, to a collection of category resources.

We’ll use a library called AutoMapper to handle mapping between objects. AutoMapper is a very popular library in the .NET world, 
and it is used in many commercial and open source projects.

so we will add the following package.

dotnet add package AutoMapper
dotnet add package AutoMapper.Extensions.Microsoft.DependencyInjection 


To use AutoMapper, we have to do two things:

Register it for dependency injection;
Create a class that will tell AutoMapper how to handle classes mapping.
First of all, open the Startup class. In the ConfigureServices method, after the last line, add the following code:

services.AddAutoMapper();

This line handles all necessary configurations of AutoMapper, such as registering it for dependency injection and scanning 
the application during startup to configure mapping profiles.

Now, in the root directory, add a new folder called Mapping, then add a class called ModelToResourceProfile. Change the code this way:

The final step consists of changing the categories controller to use AutoMapper to handle our objects mapping.




